---
title: "Social Determinants on Diabetes Deaths in the U.S."
subtitle: "BMIN503/EPID600 Final Project"
author: "Karen Tang"
format: html
editor: visual
number-sections: true
embed-resources: true
---

Use this template to complete your project throughout the course. Your Final Project presentation will be based on the contents of this document. Replace the title/name above and text below with your own, but keep the headers. Feel free to change the theme and other display settings, although this is not required. I added a new sentence

Overview

Give a brief a description of your project and its goal(s), what data you are using to complete it, and what two faculty/staff in different fields you have spoken to about your project with a brief summary of what you learned from each person. Include a link to your final project GitHub repository.

The faculty I spoke to about my project is Dr. Richard Tsui. I learned from Dr. Richard Tsui that MIMIC IV is also a data source I can use for the project. He also guided me to choose a specific social determinants that directly correlates to the disease I want to learn more about.

A brief summary is to look into the social determinants in diabetes disease.

Introduction

Describe the problem addressed, its significance, and some background to motivate the problem. This should extend what is in the @sec-overview.

According to the CDC, in 2020, 38.4 million people i the United States of all ages had diabetes. Diabetes was the eighth leading cause of death in the United States. In the abstract from the Diabetes Journals, it's stated that diabetes has a long-standing, well-documented socioeconomic and racial/ethnic inequalities in disease prevalence and incidence, morbidity and mortality. Higher diabetes prevalence is associated with lower education, lower income, and non-White race/ethnicity. Due to the association, I would like to learn and conduct an analysis on the social determinants on diabetes.

Explain why your problem is interdisciplinary, what fields can contribute to its understanding, and incorporate background related to what you learned from meeting with faculty/staff.

My problem is interdisciplinary is it involves public health researchers, physicians, public health services, pharmaceutical companies to in order to address the issue and make changes. This can be incorporate into the background because I see the diabetes technology that has been made to help and make it more affordable and convenience for patients diabetes management.

Methods

Describe the data used and general methodological approach used to address the problem described in the @sec-introduction. Subsequently, incorporate full R code necessary to retrieve and clean data, and perform analysis. Be sure to include a description of code so that others (including your future self) can understand what you are doing and why.

##The data I use for this project is the US Social Determinants of Health Database 2020 Census data and MIMIC IV data of Diabetes as the cause of death in 2020 across the US.

{r}
#Loading in death dataset, dataset from MIMIC IV on deaths with diabetes as the cause
library(readxl)
death<- read_excel("C:/Users/nghik/Downloads/sdoh_2020_tract_1_0.xlsx", sheet = 2)
View(death)

#Loading the definitely of the variables in "death"
definition<- read_excel("C:/Users/nghik/Downloads/sdoh_2020_tract_1_0.xlsx")

Results

Describe your results and include relevant tables, plots, and code/comments used to obtain them. You may refer to the @sec-methods as needed. End with a brief conclusion of your findings related to the question you set out to address. You can include references if you'd like, but this is not required.

Conclusion

This the conclusion. The @sec-results can be invoked here.
